# Companies life cycle

Like humans and stars, companies have a life cycle.


## Birth

A new company starts with a product or a service, that's either:

- A innovation -- something new in the world (like Docker)
- Or by having better execution that beats complacent competitors. That
  better part could be a better UI, better features or simply a better
  price (like Slack).

The survival rate is quite low. Some point out that 9 out of 10
startups fail.


# Childhood

When a company is young, it's often chaotic. With the founders doing a
bit of everything.

There's no need for "processes". The decision process can be discussion
between 2 people. Sometimes, just in one.

There is no time either.

**Time to market** is the most critical metric here. So, make it work.
THEN make it pretty and make it fast.

The order of these last 2 depends if you are doing a B2B or a B2C. B2C
needs to appeal to the end user. How performant the backend code
matters less to them. But if you are building a real time analytics
product, those miliseconds count.


## Growth pains

If it hits the market and monetise quickly enough they can afford to
pay full time employees by themselves. The other option is to get
fund-raised.

Either way, the race to attract talent is on.

In the beginning the only option to attract qualified people away from
their income predictable cozy jobs is through stock options. But to do
that, those potential employees need to become convinved the idea works
pays off.

In the beginning, the company with less than 10 people, founders tend
to be pretty down to earth, approachable. Discussions can happen in the
open since it's possible you can sit with the CEO at lunch and talk
about almost everything.

Management can keep tabs on most things that are happening. People can
disagree in the open. Disagreements will naturally arise but since all
are in a swim-or-sink situation most people can disagree and commit.


# Middle aged

As the company grows and, with it, revenue and profits, top management
tends to be pulled more onto the business side of things and get less
involved in the mundane aspects of implementation details.

The age for middle managers inexorably arrives.

These are people whose sole responsibility is to ensure major decisions
at the top get propagated and implemented down to the bottom. Their
voices don't carry the same weight. They disagree the least than any
other groups in the company. They are basically the enforcers of
process and policy.

The foot soldiers might disagree but because they lack the bigger
picture that the top management has.


# Aged companies

Mature companies attract other middle aged companies, that look for
established credentials and a long reputation in the market.




