# Random Thoughts


## Sounds

Sometimes I wonder how much music or how many songs connect to us at a
deeper level because they resemble sounds we hear in the womb.

Can you see in there? No. Can you smell? Doubt. Can you touch? Not much
room to flex. Can you taste? Also not much in there.

Most, if not all, external stimuli must come through sounds.

Just think. In total darkness, floating in that warm sensory-deprived
amniotic universe. It has be the ultimate ASMR experience.


## Undersold

The most undersold value of the cloud is their unified API. That's it.

Why so important? Because AU. TO. MA. TION.

Those API calls are the smallest lego pieces. Atop that, you can
assemble walls, rooms, flats, houses, buildings. Whole cities in the
cloud can be captured in a git repo.

Most ad-hoc scripts and home brewed provisioning tools can't even agree
on a standard for the _sand_ that builds the bricks.


## Don't

Sometimes you don't need a cloud. Deploy that app straight into a bare
host. Use unix sockets, avoid the whole TCP/IP network overheads.

You better pray the backups are working when things fail (which they
will) but until then, it's the best performance you will _ever_ get.


## Knife's edge

[In this comment](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39365187#39366352)
someone remarked:

> all companies are operating on a knife's edge

And it makes sense, when you think about it. It's the outcome of:

> if ain't broke don't fix it

Companies invest considerable time and money to get things off the
ground and make them work. I say to **barely** make them work.

Because, drumroll... most projects are completed beyond schedule and
over budget.

As soon as the minimum acceptance is achieved there's zero or negative
incentives to improve it. To polish it. Refactor it. But also to
revisit the tech debt left behind. After the struggles to barely make
it work, developers are keen to move to shinnier things. Managers
to close projects as "Mission Accomplished" (_cue George W. Bush_)
and end the apologising.

Touching code that barely works becomes a risky adventure, that only
the approved go, and only when there’s a clear reward for it. Fresh
meat assigned to add features or fix stuff are only allowed to touch
the minimal amount of code, in the smallest amount of time. So, every
10 years, "say hello to my little friend" (_cue Tony Montana_), aka
that big-bang rewrite.

And that’s why, everywhere you go, every company is "operating on a
knife’s edge".
